>>ERICH VON DANIKEN: We
have all heard of the myths
and the legends of our history.
But is there another story?
[THEME MUSIC]
Since roughly 30 years, we are
confronted with the phenomenon
which we call crop circles.
In the beginning, they were
simple, primitive circles.
And now it is normal
in our society.
We look for a
reasonable explanation.
So we found all kinds of
explanations what could it be.
And I read in the
scientific literature
incredible stupidities how to
explain these crop circles.
But the pictures of
the so-called circles
are not circles anymore.
They became bigger and bigger,
and much more complicated.
Now we always look for the next
plausible, reasonable answer.
And one of these reasonable
answers was it must be hoaxes.
And, of course, we found hoaxes.
They admitted, they
showed even, how they
make these circles and things.
But the hoaxes are
nothing compared
to the real, gigantic
pictures which in the meantime
appear of a sudden.
And in some cases,
you can prove it.
They appear within
a few minutes.
They are there.
There's no way out.
It's no more hoaxes.
The primitive circles,
yes, are hoaxes, but not
the gigantic pictures.
So somebody is obviously trying
to give us an information.
I suggested that we are
visited again in our days
by extraterrestrials.
They are looking to us.
Now it would be easy with their
technology to just show up
on a gigantic football stadium.
The cameras are there already.
But because they know us--
we are the offspring of them--
they know how our
reaction would be.
We would be completely shocked.
Our religions worldwide
would crash down.
It would be a catastrophe.
And they don't want to shock us.
They know our reaction, that
they do it in another way.
Slowly, slowly, they
make gigantic pictures
in the ground, knowing
that humans use and search
for the next plausible answers.
So we have 20 plausible answers.
And then we realize the
next plausible answer
makes no sense anymore, because
these things appear overnight.
These things appear
within a few minutes.
So we have to come up with
the question, what is it?
Is someone up there who tries
to give us an information?
Are we too stupid to
understand the information,
because we are always saying,
well, it must be wrong?
It must be hoaxes.
Some of them are hoaxes.
But the big, complicated
designs are not hoaxes anymore.
They want that we realize there
is something out of humanity,
out of this planet.
After we have tried to explain
everything in a natural way,
we have to come to a conclusion.
There is no more natural answer.
There is something
behind our knowledge.
That's why they do it.
UFO sightings are in
the meantime worldwide.
We have ten thousands
of people who
saw UFOs and people who are
serious, not only hoaxes again.
And in antiquity, we
had the same thing.
We can prove that in
antiquity, our forefathers
made gigantic signs
in the ground,
like today's crop circles.
Just it was done
by our forefathers
some thousands of years ago.
And all these designs
are laid out in a way
that they are so big, you can
see them only from the air.
I mean, Nazca in Peru
is one of the examples.
But it's not only Nazca.
In the meantime, because of
our flying aircraft, because
of our helicopters, we found
gigantic designs dating
from prehistory time
in Saudi Arabia,
in Australia, in
today's Jordania,
then even here in the United
States, in California,
a place called Blythe.
You see figures in the ground.
You can see them
only from the air.
In Mexico, in the
Sonoran Desert,
there are hundreds
of designs which
you can see only from the air.
And the main mystery is
definitely Nazca in Peru.
I was so many times in
Nazca, I made myself
over 5,000 pictures of Nazca.
I show you here now
pictures of Nazca which
were never shown on television.
And you really are shocked
when you see these designs
and look at them carefully.
Until today, the
scientific community
has come up with the
following information.
All these designs on the ground
is an astronomical calendar.
It made no sense.
Then they say it was a
cult for the weather gods.
And other scientists
suggest that now it was
a cult for the mountain gods.
I read always in
scientific magazines,
now it is a cult
for agriculture.
My God, this is ridiculous.
There was never agriculture.
It's too hot for it.
If in every time, something
was growing there,
green, then you would not
see the designs anymore.
Another suggests that now
it's a prehistoric Inca sport
place, something like
a prehistoric Olympia.
Others say, no, these are
copies of Fata Morganas.
So the natives,
somewhere in the air,
they have seen some lines,
maybe in the clouds.
It was a starting place
for hot air balloons.
We know that hot
air balloons could
have existed in prehistoric
times in South America.
It's theoretically possible.
But we have no writing, no
written record about it.
But even for hot air balloons,
you don't need landing strips.
Hot air balloons just
start in one place.
Another one said now
these are acre plots.
But acre plots means
growing of something.
There was never
something growing there.
Another one said, now these
are procession streets,
you know, for some religion.
It's ridiculous-- streets
which started abruptly, ended
abruptly, etc.
Another one suggests that,
no, this is a prehistoric map.
A map for what, for where?
Or a cultural atlas--
we have had in the scientific
community so many explanations.
And every scientist
thinks, this is plausible.
That's the next
natural explanation.
It's all nonsense.
Just look at these
gigantic lines.
These are eye openers.
And on television, you
never see these pictures.
I have 5,000 of them.
In Nazca, there you see
some mountains which
were artificially cut off.
You never see these
mountains on television.
Somebody cut the top
of the mountain off.
You can clearly prove
it in the pictures.
Normal mountains
around Nazca, they
come to the top from both sides.
And you see it's the
top of the mountain.
Then you see one mountain
where the whole top is cut off.
There is a line
on this mountain.
And under the line,
the line looking
like an airstrip,
starting abruptly,
ended abruptly, under the
line is a zig-zag line.
No idea, no suggestion
what this was.
I simply suggest, or in
this case I speculate,
it has something
to do with flying.
You see, today, we need
electromagnetic impulses,
for example, to start machines.
Magnetic, it could
be something inside.
We have sent a
scientific crew to Nazca.
And I have asked the scientists
a few questions which
archaeologists would never ask.
Archaeologists ask for datings,
for bones, for fireplaces,
and all these things.
I ask, for example, please
go to the Desert of Nazca
with your modern
equipment and measure
the resistance of electricity.
What is the resistance
of electricity?
If I have 100 volts, and then
I have a measuring device,
and I want to see if the
electricity is flowing,
so I can measure the
flow of electricity.
And I wanted to know from
the scientific world,
does the electricity
flow in Nazca?
Is it the same flowing
as in the desert
or on these so-called lines?
They made their
scientific measurements.
And as expected, in the
desert, in the sand,
there is no flowing electricity,
because sand is an isolator,
like ceramic is an isolator.
But then they made the same
experience on the lines,
on the lines we have
cut off mountains,
with the zig-zag
lines around them.
And the speed of the electrical
resistance was 8,000 times
higher then just a few
meters in the desert.
So there is something.
I ask the scientists, can
you measure magnetic fields
in Nazca?
Is there something wrong?
Of course, there are changes
in the magnetic field,
especially on the lines.
On that mountain, they found a
magnetic field in the ground,
under the line, which is so high
that they could not measure it
anymore.
So there is something beyond it.
But nobody knows what it
is, and nobody is allowed
to go there or make diggings.
So we know that something
is wrong in Nazca
because we can measure
the flow of electricity,
the difference in the
sand, and the difference
in the so-called lines.
We can definitely measure the
changing of the magnetic field.
On the zig-zag line, there
is something deep down there.
But in practice,
one would say, OK.
So make a hole.
What's so difficult there?
It's not possible.
Nazca is completely protected.
You don't receive the
permission to simply scratch
a little stone away.
If you do something, you
are immediately arrested.
You get in jail in Peru, and
you have to pay about $10,000
to get out again.
So we know by measurement
something is wrong in Nazca.
But in practice, we have
no possibility to check it.
It might be that in
gigantic temple structures,
for example, the pyramid, or
in big other temple structures,
there might be changing of the
magnetic field or electricity.
But nobody measures it.
We have only
measured it in Nazca.
There, it's true.
We can prove it.
I know from my knowledge
of ancient texts,
of ancient mythologies,
that some thousands
of years ago a gigantic
mother spaceship
was surrounding
around the Earth.
Now this mother ship,
spaceship, after a long trip,
they need something to refuel.
I mean, is it organic material?
Is it uranium?
Whatever, so they
measure the planet.
Where could we find something?
Maybe they are looking for gold.
And from an orbit,
they can measure.
Where do we find
gold or whatever?
Now they simply send an
automatic space probe down.
An automatic space probe would
not need a landing strip.
It simply came down like
one of our satellites.
And before it came
to a standstill,
it might be that this automatic
space probe is blowing away
some sand and stones
and etc., before it
comes to a standstill.
One of the natives
was watching this.
Something was coming from
the gods, from the sky.
And this space probe
makes some measurements.
Hello, what is the
magnetic field here?
Do we find gold,
uranium, or whatever?
And disappears again, and now
the native goes to his tribe
and says, hey.
Something was
descending from the god.
I saw it here, on
the plane of Nazca.
And you see a small
line simply made,
created by the blown-away
stone and sand.
And now the natives
may think, obviously
the gods want that we
make some lines for them.
And it becomes a religion,
a cult. The natives
now make lines in all kinds
of directions-- small lines,
large lines, thin
lines, long lines.
The longest of the
small lines in Nazca
is 23 kilometers long,
over cross, mountain, hill,
straight way, 23 kilometers.
The longest of the
airstrip-looking lines
is 3.8 kilometers long, enough
to land a jumbo jet now.
That was my suggestion.
The lines were
made by the natives
because it has become
a religious cult,
but that's not all.
The extraterrestrials, in fact,
they found something there,
something which they used.
We have no idea what they used.
And they took it off from Nazca.
It was the extraterrestrials,
not the natives,
who cut the mountain, because
something which they needed
was in there.
By cutting off the
mountain, you have debris.
There is nothing in Nazca.
Where is all this debris
which they took off
from the cutting mountain?
And maybe they had an
automatic landing machine.
And the landing machine was
working on a magnetic field.
And for the magnetic field,
they need a zig-zag line
under the line, because
with a zig-zag line,
you compose an
electromagnetic field.
So it comes to a standstill.
And you pull it the other way
around, and you start it again.
The local people
made the figures.
You see, you have in the ground
figures of fishes, spiders,
monkeys, birds, and
these kind of things.
And these figures were
made by the locals.
You know, Nazca
is very, very hot.
The surface of the
Desert of Nazca
is composed of little
brown stones and sand.
Now you have only
to use your shoes
and to scratch away these
little brown stones.
And you see yourself, a higher,
bright-shining level appears.
With this, you can, in
fact, make these figures.
There is no mystery
in making the figures.
You can also make some lines.
This is also possible, by
scratching away with your shoes
the surface of it.
But the large lines, starting
abruptly, ending abruptly,
the large, big lines on
mountains which are cut off
are not made by scratching
away with your shoes.
Here, technology was used.
So you have to differentiate.
There was high
technology, in my eyes,
from extraterrestrials,
which has
to do with the cut-off
mountains, the zig-zag lines,
and these things.
And there are imitations
of the natives.
Even after the
extraterrestrials left,
when they have received
what they wanted,
the natives continue to make
lines in honor of the god.
So you have both there--
high technology from
extraterrestrials
and simply primitive
lines made by the natives.
If you're standing in Nazca
with your foot, you see nothing.
You see no difference.
You have to stand
exactly on a line.
Then you see it goes down
into the ground about four,
five centimeters.
But you see it only
directly standing there.
Two meters away, you
see no difference.
It's all brown rust, sand.
That's all.
The natives wanted to
give signs to the gods.
One day, the work of the
so-called gods was done.
They said goodbye.
We'll come back in a
few thousand years.
Goodbye, everyone.
They disappeared.
But on Earth, the natives
had the next generation
and the next generation.
And they were all
talking about the gods.
And they said to our
grandfathers' time,
the gods from the sky were here.
Which gods?
Up there.
Then a high priest may
come up with a good idea.
We must show them
signs, the gods.
We must signalize them
we are still here.
We are praying.
We are hoping of your return.
And now the natives
start to make signs
in the ground of such
an over-dimensional size
that you can see them
only from the air.
And again, Nazca
is not isolated.
I know from "The Ethiopian
Book of the King,"
"The Kebra Nagast," that King
Solomon had a flying machine.
In the "Kebra Nagast,"
it says that King Solomon
had not only flying machines.
He had maps, maps from
the surface of the Earth.
He knew exactly on which part
is a jungle, on which part
is a desert, etc.
It might well be that King
Solomon, with one of his flying
machines, once flew to Nazca.
In the Hindu mythology, we have
the twins called the Maruts.
They are described.
They had flying machines.
They were flying
over the planet,
visiting different tribes.
So King Solomon, the
flying Maruts twins
were maybe in Nazca.
And they all created lines when
they came to a landing point.
And the natives
imitated and made lines.
made signs for them.
Hey, we are here.
We expect you.
We have offerings for you.
We have food for you.
Please, visit us again.
Give us your knowledge.
That's why the natives made
gigantic figures in the ground.
In Nazca, there is a
geometrical figure which
is never shown to the tourists.
I made a few hundred
photos of it.
It's gigantic.
It's different circles, a big
circle, two smaller circles.
And around them are
triangles and so.
And this is geometric,
is high geometry.
It does not fit to the natives.
Today, we don't know what
the meaning is of it.
The tourists are
not overflown there.
By the way, the tourists
today in Nazca--
this is another
thing which I hate--
the pilots, they
fly the tourists
over these signs, the
fishes, monkeys, birds, etc.,
but not over the lines and
not over the geometrical part
of them.
And just a few years ago in
England, this same design,
which I call looks
like a mandala,
the same design appeared,
but this time in England.
Now between England and
Nazca, there are 20,000 miles.
In the last few years,
in the desert of Jordan,
again, gigantic figures were
found, only found by air.
It's comparable to Nazca, with
hundreds of designs, rings,
circles, triangles, etc.
And this mystery
goes on worldwide.
Always some of the
prehistoric people
made designs for the
gods, because, of course,
you can see them
only from there.
In antiquity, the
gods were here.
The humans worshipped the gods.
The humans said to
the gods, we want
to make a construction,
a temple, something
in your honor, so that our
ancestors later, thousands
of years ago, may understand
that you were here.
And the gods said, yes.
Make it.
But make it only in this
place and in this place.
So the humans made
these structures.
Today is different.
Today, we have no high culture.
There are no humans which
adore some gods and say,
in your honor, we want to
make a gigantic structure.
The time is different.
[DRUMMING AND SINGING]
In Africa, there is a
tribe called the Dogon.
And the Dogon,
they say they were
visited by beings from the
solar system of Sirius.
The humans asked the gods,
where do you come from?
And they gave names, but the
names mean nothing to us.
The names are the names of them.
To us, it's a word which has
no meaning on the firmament.
So we don't know
where they came from.
And we don't know
where they went.
Definitely, they went back,
and they promised to return.
They are back again.
Some thousands of years
ago, extraterrestrials
created the first humans,
simply Adam and Eve.
They again made children.
And their children
made again children.
They multiply and multiply.
And in these generations,
there was only one language.
Adam and Eve, they came directly
from the tribe of the apes.
The apes had no language.
Now Adam and Eve
in the legend were
put into a place
called paradise, where
they learned the language.
Adam was the first man
who was able to speak.
He had what we call broadcast
center to formulate words.
Now Adam was the one who
gave to everything a name.
Adam went to that.
This is called a bush.
This is called a river.
This is called grass.
Grass is not the
same thing as water.
Water is not the same
thing as the sky.
When you want to
talk together, you
have to have definition,
the meaning of the object.
That's why Adam
started all language.
I suggest the first
language that the humans
had was the language of
the extraterrestrials.
This you can still
read in the Bible.
Before the Tower
of Babel, it says,
and everyone had the same
language at that time.
Later, the human
society separated.
They started to travel,
and they started
to develop their own languages.
The first language of the
humans was the language
of the extraterrestrials.
Adam learned it from
the extraterrestrials,
and Adam gave
everything the name.
Later, they separated, and
they developed other languages.
[YODELLING]
I live in a small country,
Switzerland, in the Alps.
And only in Switzerland, we
have 23 different dialects,
because every society
creates its own words.
If they used
technology, the gods,
they would give a
gigantic sign in the sky.
They would show something
big that everyone can see.
For example, they could
show with a laser a sign
on the moon.
We have full moon, and
we have empty moon.
Now there's nothing,
an empty moon.
All of a sudden, you see
a gigantic inscription
on the moon.
This will be technology.
But on the other hand, I'm sure
the information is within us.
It's in our genes.
And we continue to
give this information
to the next generation.
And our genetics will find out
that we are not only humans.
We have been influenced
by an artificial mutation,
by extraterrestrials.
So we will find
the answers anyhow.
It makes no sense to be
against all these hypotheses
of an extraterrestrial
visit in the past
because everything points to it.
And the final answer is in us,
and our genetics will find it.
I am Erich von Däniken.
Join me next time on
Beyond the Legends.